falafels Michelle okay this this one is
definitely dear to my heart because this
is my mom's recipe
and I grew up having this at least once
a week so we're actually starting these
are frozen fava beans and really
important paper towel underneath because
moisture is your nemesis here when
you're making falafel because the least
amount of moisture means the least
amount of flour means the least amount
of gumminess inside of your falafel
they have chopped garlic I'm gonna add
that green onions that have been chopped
hot chili flake because again this is a
very rich product here we have cumin
that we toasted and ground tablespoon of
salt cilantro parsley and I added a
little bit of English peas we're not
gonna over mix this okay I wanted a
little chunky
I love the color of the peas and this is
all about consistency and flavor
obviously always flavor
you're sure thank you so I like I want
to make sure that those spices are
coming through make sure you get a
little garlic remember it will mellow
out a little bit cuz you're gonna
pan-fry it in oil I love it it has good
spice to it
it has a good spice to it and so what
we're gonna do now is we're just gonna
go ahead and scoop this and we're gonna
test one see how firm I'm going here on
the side because I'm packing it right in
right in there and you would just scoop
all of these and go ahead and let them
set up in the refrigerator for about an
hour before you start cooking them is
this something that you could do ahead
of time if you were entertaining - how
long you could leave this overnight in
the fridge and see I just really patted
it down I kept that nice shape that it
had yeah and I'm gonna put it in here
and so we're just gonna coat this is
that the thickness that we're looking
for it is that's exactly the thickness
you're looking for and that's a great
question because you can see it's about
half an inch thick mm-hmm I'm gonna go
ahead and just drop it in there and we
tasted the mix so all we're really doing
now is checking for the fact that it
sticks together so we're gonna scoop a
few of these okay Michele so now I'm
gonna flip my falafel this is absolutely
one of those you never overlook a ham
all the time all the time and actually
this is this would be a really fun job
for a kid I'm sure and you can see this
is a we did great Michelle oh growing up
in a Middle Eastern family everything
that we ate at home we everything had
high spice high acid hi sweetness
high fat content in it and so that's
kind of where my love for balanced food
came from so I'm gonna squeeze some
lemon on here just to give it a little
acidity because this is rich I'm gonna
eat on this one I was gonna tell you you
better get in on this
this they're really flaky Michelle you
did a great I could tell by the sound
when we're cutting into this mmm not dry
they fall apart they crumble that's what
you want right there see how it crumbles
that's what you want
really mom I wish your mom were here
give her a giant hug she'd ask me where
the peas are doing in it this is
incredible
and I really feel like I'm getting to
know you a little more by eating these
foods that you grow up with well
whenever you're ready to go to
Ellensburg Washington Michelle it's
waking up my mom I'll do it I would love
that
you